--How many albums does the artist Led Zeppelin
have?--

select count(albumid) as totalalbums
from albums
where artistid= (select artistid from artists where name = 'Led Zeppelin')

--Create a list of album titles and the unit prices for the artist "Audioslave".
How many records are returned?
Only 25 records will be shown in the output so please look at the bottom of the output to see how many records were retrieved.--

select n.name, u.unitprice
from ((albums t
inner join artists n
on t.artistid = n.artistid)
inner join tracks u on t.albumid = u.albumid)
where n.name = 'Audioslave'


--Find the first and last name of any customer who
does not have an invoice. Are there any customers returned from the query?  --

select n.firstname ,n.lastname , i.invoiceid
from customers n
    left join invoices i on n.customerid = i.customerid
where invoiceid is null


--Find the total price for each album.
What is the total price for the album “Big Ones”?--

select al.title, i.total, tr.albumid, sum(tr.unitprice)
from ((((artists ar inner join albums al on ar.artistid = al.artistid)
inner join tracks tr on al.albumid = tr.albumid)
inner join invoice_items ii on tr.trackid = ii.trackid)
inner join invoices i on ii.invoiceid = i.invoiceid)
where al.title = 'Big Ones'


--How many records are created when you apply a Cartesian join to the invoice and invoice items table?
Only 25 records will be shown in the output so please look at the bottom of the output to see how many records were retrieved.--

select count (*) total 
from invoices a cross join invoice_items b


--Using a subquery, find the names of all the tracks for the album "Californication".
What is the title of the 8th track?--

select t.name 
from tracks t
where t.albumid =(select albumid 
from albums a
where a.title = 'Californication')

--Find the total number of invoices for each customer along with the customer's full name, city and email.
After running the query described above, what is the email address of the 5th person, František Wichterlová? Enter the answer below (feel free to copy and paste--

select c.customerid, c.firstname, c.lastname, c.city, c.email, count (i.invoiceid)
from customers c join invoices i 
on c.customerid = i.customerid
group by c.customerid


--Retrieve the track name, album, artistID, and trackID for all the albums.
What is the song title of trackID 12 from the "For Those About to Rock We Salute You" album? Enter the answer below.--

select t.name, a.title, ar.name, t.trackid
from artists ar
inner join albums a
on ar.artistid = a.artistid
inner join tracks t
on a.albumid = t.albumid

--Retrieve a list with the managers last name, and the last name of the employees who report to him or her.--

select mgr.lastname manager, e.lastname employee 
from employees e
left join employees mgr
on e.reportsto = mgr.employeeid

--Find the name and ID of the artists who do not have albums. 
After running the query described above, two of the records returned have the same last name. Enter that name below.

select a.title , ar.name, ar.artistid 
from artists ar
left join albums a
on ar.artistid = a.artistid
where a.title is null


--Use a UNION to create a list of all the employee's and customer's first names and last names ordered by the last name in descending order.
After running the query described above, determine what is the last name of the 6th record? Enter it below. Remember to order things in descending order to be sure to get the correct answer--

select e.firstname, e.lastname
from employees e
union
select c.firstname, c.lastname
from customers c
order by c.lastname desc


--See if there are any customers who have a different city listed in their billing city versus their customer city.--

select c.customerid, c.firstname, c.lastname , c.city
from customers c
join invoices i
on c.customerid = i.customerid
where c.city <> i.billingcity

